it was amazing like one paragraph like 3
minutes of talking and I was not getting
it right every single time and basically
it's this tool where one person says
something just like a short thing to
explain their side of the fight and then
you just repeat what you heard and I
like got it
wrong every time I was like what the is
happening it's like I know I hear that
thing like and I'm repeating it but
she's like no no that's not what I meant
and she would adjust no I meant this I'd
be like okay and then I would say it and
she'd be like yeah and then she'd do the
next paragraph I'm like okay so you said
this she's like no no no no I meant this
and it was like little nuances of oh
like I was just putting the blame in
this like odd place in the corner or I
was saying that like I was inferring
that she was trying when it was
something that she wasn't trying or and
it was an amazing moment because I was
like oh I don't I don't really get what
she's saying to me so like to some
degree we were like fighting over
semantics but it wasn't it was a little
bit more than semantics and the fact
that it was her perspective I wasn't
seeing the perspective through the words
so we did this mirroring over and over
again for like I think it was like over
a year every time we fought just to like
learn what each other was saying and how
much of our disagreement was just not
understanding the other person where
they were coming from what they meant
when they said XY Y and Z compared to
what you heard and it was an amazing
thing and so how to listen has become a
huge thing for me and the most important
thing is to listen to a person like
they're right like I the way I do it in
a fight is I will listen to Tara and I
will think like she is everything I
admire every like the best Guru of the
biggest thing and she's like everything
that spills out of her mouth as a pearl
of wisdom and I'll listen to her like
that like oh there's some truth here
that I don't get that I am here to
understand and it doesn't mean I have to
buy it but the idea is like I'm here to
fully open fully to understand where
she's coming from and the other thing
that I do when I'm listening is just be
full Wonder just like in the connection
course when we talk about wonder I'm
just like I don't it's like curiosity
without needing to know the answer and
it's and it's this space of like awe oh
wow what is happening I have no idea I'm
so curious but I don't need to like find
the I don't need to root around and get
to the place where we solve everything I
just need to be in Wonder and eventually
it'll show itself and so that's that's
the way I do it I listen to her like
she's like this unbelievably intelligent
smart amazing person which she is and
then and then and then also listen to it
like just with this huge amount of
Wonder but it took me like like like a
long time of just mirroring her to
understand that how much I was not
understanding of what she meant and it
and it went both ways so she wasn't
understanding me and we just had
different ways of looking at the world
and different ways of communicating and
our trauma filtered things in different
ways and so it's it's so critical to
learn how to listen and I really suggest
for you just doing that mirroring for a
while and until you really understand
like where you might be missing stuff
and that the other thing that that does
which is really cool is when you realize
oh they mean something different than
what I'm hearing and I'm putting my
layers of interpretation on it and
they're putting their layers of
interpretation on it you start realizing
like we might not be disagreeing like
this isn't personal like this isn't them
rejecting me this is them not
understanding me right this isn't like
they think I'm bad this is they don't
get where I'm coming from they like they
just they can't comprehend it and it's
really hard to be mad at
ignorance not ignorance like you're
ignorant but ignorance like not
understand it's really hard to be mad at
not understanding really easy to be mad
at you're attacking me and so there's a
way in which all of a sudden when you're
listening like this when you start
working on the on the issue there's this
um woman I work with who's amazing she's
this technologist and she talks about
she goes it's
like like looking at the problem like
it's a patient on the table it's not
personal like we just look at it like oh
this is the problem and then all of a
sudden that's what happens you're like
oh we're just looking at this problem
like it's a patient on the table it's
not personal it doesn't mean anybody's
bad we can just listen to each other and
like understand each other and then
everything's going to resolve itself so
learning to listen critical
[Music]